add falcoctl gitlab oci artifact supports (#1124)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falcoctl-gitlab-oci-artifacts-support.md

---

> title: "GitLab Container Registry Now Supports falcoctl OCI Artifact mediaTypes"
> linktitle: "GitLab Container Registry Now Supports falcoctl OCI Artifact mediaTypes"
> date: 2023-08-11
> author: Batuhan Apaydın
> slug: gitLab-container-registry-now-supports-falcoctl-oci-artifact-mediaTypes
> tags: ["Rules","Falco Plugins","Falcoctl", "GitLab", "OCI", "OCI Artifacts"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: ""GitLab Container Registry now supports Falcoctl OCI Artifacts"
linktitle: ""GitLab Container Registry now supports Falcoctl OCI Artifacts"
date: 2023-08-11
author: Batuhan Apaydın
slug: gitLab-supports-falcoctl-ociartifacts
tags: ["Rules", "Falco Plugins", "Falcoctl", "Configuration Management"]
```

Reviewer: May of the included tags wouldn't be supported by the Falco Blog. [Here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/blob/master/data/en/blog_tags.yaml) is the supported list.

Author: thank you!

---

> Today, we are going to have a quick chit chat about the latest contribution we (w/[Emin Aktas](https://twitter.com/emminaktas)) made to GitLab's [Container Registry](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we are going to have a quick chit chat about the latest contribution we (w/[Emin Aktas](https://twitter.com/emminaktas)) made to [GitLab Container Registry](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry).
```

Reviewer: I didn't realize I was editing a comment. Apologies, @Issif 😅

> Today, we are going to have a quick chit chat about the latest contribution we (w/[Emin Aktas](https://twitter.com/emminaktas)) made to GitLab's [Container Registry](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry).

Reviewer 3: Typo here @developer-guy

> We noticed that GitLab Container Registry didn't support falcoctl OCI Artifact [mediaTypes](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/blob/7f1e8825a6f86010b9194577c56712dd0ef0442d/pkg/oci/constants.go#L20-L29) while we were pushing the Falco rules stored from GitHub container registry to GitLab container registry. We decided then to contribute to GitLab Container Registry by adding the support for falcoctl OCI Artifact mediaTypes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We noticed that GitLab Container Registry didn't support Falcoctl OCI Artifact [mediaTypes](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/blob/7f1e8825a6f86010b9194577c56712dd0ef0442d/pkg/oci/constants.go#L20-L29) while we were pushing the Falco rules stored from GitHub container registry to GitLab container registry. We decided then to contribute to GitLab Container Registry by adding the support for Falcoctl OCI Artifact mediaTypes.
```

> We noticed that GitLab Container Registry was not supporting falcoctl's OCI Artifact [mediaTypes]((https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/blob/7f1e8825a6f86010b9194577c56712dd0ef0442d/pkg/oci/constants.go#L20-L29) while we were pushing back the Falco's rules stored in GitHub's container registry to GitLab's container registry, so we decided to contribute to GitLab's Container Registry to add support for falcoctl's OCI Artifact mediaTypes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We noticed that GitLab Container Registry didn't support falcoctl OCI Artifact [mediaTypes](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/blob/7f1e8825a6f86010b9194577c56712dd0ef0442d/pkg/oci/constants.go#L20-L29) while we were pushing the Falco rules stored from GitHub container registry to GitLab container registry. We decided then to contribute to GitLab Container Registry by adding the support for falcoctl OCI Artifact mediaTypes.
```

Author: thanks for fixing my bad grammar issues 🤦

```shell
Error: PUT https://registry.gitlab.com/v2/x/falcosecurity/rules/k8saudit-rules/manifests/1: MANIFEST_INVALID: manifest invalid; unknown media type: application/vnd.cncf.falco.rulesfile.config.v1+json
Error: PUT https://registry.gitlab.com/v2/x/falcosecurity/plugins/k8saudit/manifests/sha256:b29c97a6590486f8b3b83644677e11d2f68e201a7035699189653d7f571d7e13: MANIFEST_INVALID: manifest invalid; unknown media type: application/vnd.cncf.falco.plugin.config.v1+json
```

> You can learn more about our contribution [here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry/-/merge_requests/1375). It will allow you to pull and push falcoctl OCI Artifacts from and to GitLab Container Registry once the feature is released, planned for GitLab **16.3**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more about our contribution [here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry/-/merge_requests/1375). Once the feature is released, planned for GitLab **16.3**, it will allow you to pull and push Falcoctl OCI Artifacts from and to GitLab Container Registry.
```

> Then, we have added support for falcoctl's OCI Artifact [mediaTypes](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/blob/7f1e8825a6f86010b9194577c56712dd0ef0442d/pkg/oci/constants.go#L20-L29) to GitLab Container Registry, you can learn more about the contribution, [here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry/-/merge_requests/1375) which means that you can now be able to pull and push falcoctl OCI Artifacts from and to GitLab Container Registry once the feature is released, which is planned to be released with GitLab **16.3**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can learn more about our contribution [here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/container-registry/-/merge_requests/1375). It will allow you to pull and push falcoctl OCI Artifacts from and to GitLab Container Registry once the feature is released, planned for GitLab **16.3**.
```

Author: less is more okay, I'll accept that, thanks.

> falcoctl is one of the newest development efforts by the Falco community. It is a CLI tool that allows you to manage complete lifecycle of your Falco rules and plugins by using the power of OCI Artifacts. You can learn more about falcoctl, [here](https://falco.org/blog/falcoctl-install-manage-rules-plugins/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
falcoctl is one of the newest development efforts from the Falco community, it is a CLI tool that allows you to manage the complete lifecycle of your Falco rules and plugins by using the power of OCI Artifacts. You can learn more about falcoctl [here](https://falco.org/blog/falcoctl-install-manage-rules-plugins/). 
```

> For those who are not familiar with the OCI Artifacts concept, the OCI Artifacts specification is a way to extend the OCI Registry specification to support storing and retrieving arbitrary content, you can learn more about OCI Artifacts concept, [here](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts). OCI Artifacts are important because today's moden software requires storing more than just container images in OCI registries such as the following artifacts would be great use-case examples of that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For those who are not familiar with the OCI Artifacts concept, the OCI Artifacts specification is a way to extend the OCI Registry specification to support storing and retrieving arbitrary content, you can learn more about OCI Artifacts concept, [here](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts). OCI Artifacts are important because modern softwares require to store more than just their container images in registries such as the following artifacts:
```

* Helm charts
* WebAssembly modules
* Falco rules and plugins. :)
* ...many other custom artifacts

You can even create your own custom OCI Artifacts. A key thing of OCI registries is uniquely identifying the type. This is done by using a media type, which is a string that identifies the type of content stored in the registry. The media type is used to determine how to interpret the content when it is retrieved from the registry. To learn more about how you can write your own custom OCI Artifacts, you can check out the [OCI Artifacts Authoring guide](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts/blob/main/artifact-authors.md).

> Also, at the same time, distributing things as OCI Artifacts in OCI registries offers a standardized, secured and efficient way to distribute content within the container ecosystem, making it easier to integrate, distribute, and manage software artifacts across different environments and tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributing software artifacts as OCI Artifacts served by OCI registries offers a standardized, secured, and efficient way to consume and reuse content within the container ecosystem, making it easier to integrate, distribute, and manage them across different environments and tools.
```

> You can even create your own custom OCI Artifacts. A key thing of OCI registries is uniquely identifying the type. This is done by using a media type, which is a string that identifies the type of content stored in the registry. The media type is used to determine how to interpret the content when it is retrieved from the registry. To learn more about how you can write your own custom OCI Artifacts, you can check out the [OCI Artifacts Authoring guide](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts/blob/main/artifact-authors.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can even create your own custom OCI Artifacts. A key thing of OCI registries is the uniquely identified type. This is done by using a media type, which is a string that identifies the type of content stored in the registry. The media type is used to determine how to interpret the content when it is retrieved from the registry. To learn more about how you can write your own custom OCI Artifacts, you can check out the [OCI Artifacts Authoring guide](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts/blob/main/artifact-authors.md).
```

> Hope you can enjoy the new feature once it is released, see you next time! :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hope you can enjoy the new feature once it's released. See you next time! :)
```

> Also, at the same time, distributing things as OCI Artifacts in OCI registries offers a standardized, secure, and efficient way to distribute content within the container ecosystem, making it easier to integrate, distribute, and manage software artifacts across different environments and tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, at the same time, distributing things as OCI Artifacts in OCI registries offers a standardized, secured and efficient way to distribute content within the container ecosystem, making it easier to integrate, distribute, and manage software artifacts across different environments and tools.
```
